[Music]
I want to go through our overall plan
for beating this new coronavirus first
we must stop the disease spreading to a
point weight overwhelms our NHS and
every country in the world has the same
problem this is a disease that is so
dangerous and so infectious that without
drastic measures to check its progress
it would overwhelm any health system in
the world and I've used the Italian
Health System it is excellent
and the problem is not with the health
systems it's the numbers of of sufferers
that's why we announced the steps
yesterday that we did advising against
all unnecessary contact steps that are
unprecedented since world war ii they
will have an effect on the spread of the
disease the shielding of vulnerable
groups will also reduce suffering and I
want to thank everybody at this stage
for what we're all doing to follow this
advice I stress that although the
measures announced are already extreme
we may well have to go further and
faster in the coming days to protect
lives and the NHS secondly we're doing
all we can and as quickly as we can to
increase the capacity of the NHS that
means more testing more beds more
ventilators and more trained staff it
means greater support for NHS and other
staff and it means much better data
better
technology third we must do all we can
to boost science and research we must
study this disease test drugs that
already exist and have been through
medical trials to see what helps treat
severe cases and search for a vaccine
fourth we must act like any wartime
government and do whatever it takes to
support our economy and that's the the
main purpose of this press conference
this afternoon we must support millions
of businesses and tens of millions of
families
individuals through the coming months
and to do that the government machine
mustn will respond with a profound sense
of urgency
thousands of brilliant officials are
already working around the clock but we
must do more and faster the Chancellor
will be saying much more about this in a
moment
with further announcements in the coming
days fifth we will need to strengthen
other public services that will be under
great pressure from the direct and
indirect effects of the disease such as
the effects of staff shortages and from
the economic pressures all institutions
will be under great pressure and we will
therefore invest hugely in the people
that we all rely on them around and
again I want to I want to thank all our
public servants for what they are
already doing ultimately to beat this
crisis we will need a combination of
better science technology medicine data
government operations economic support
learning from other countries and social
support as time goes on we will learn
more and more about the disease and the
effects of our actions and while we need
national unity we also need
international cooperation and although
we now need to impose physical distance
between ourselves we must at the same
time have closer social support for each
other yes this enemy can be deadly but
it is also beatable and we know how to
beat it and we know that if as a country
we follow the scientific advice that is
now being given we know that we will
beat it and however tough the months
ahead we have the resolve and the
resources to win the fight and to repeat
this government will do whatever it
takes I'll now hand over for more on
that to wishy Cenac the Chancellor of
the Exchequer Thank You Prime Minister
afternoon everybody the corona virus
pandemic is a public health emergency
but it is also an economic emergency we
have never in peacetime faced an
economic fight like this one I know that
people are deeply worried I know that
people's anxiety about the disease
itself is matched only by their anxiety
about their livelihoods
last week I set out an initial economic
response in the budget I promised to do
whatever it takes to support our economy
through this crisis and that if the
situation changed I would not hesitate
to take further action and that is what
I want to begin doing today this
struggle will not be overcome by a
single package of measures or isolated
interventions it will be one through a
collective national effort every one of
us doing all we can to protect family
neighbors friends jobs this national
effort will be underpinned by government
interventions in the economy on a scale
unimaginable only a few weeks ago this
is not a time for ideology and orthodoxy
this is a time to be bold a time for
courage I want to reassure every British
citizen this government will give you
all the tools you need to get through
this we will support jobs we will
support incomes we will support
businesses and we will help you protect
your loved ones we will do whatever it
takes in the budget last week I sent out
the first stage of our economic response
with a 30 billion pound package of
support for people and businesses but I
also said in the budget that as the
situation evolves we would take further
action and as the Prime Minister set out
yesterday we're now approaching the fast
growth part of the upwards curve he has
set out the next stage of our public
health response and so I now wanted to
update everyone on the next stage of our
economic response first the government
will stand behind businesses small and
large I can announce today an
unprecedented package of government
backed and guaranteed loans to support
business to get through this today I am
making available an initial 330 billion
pounds of guarantees equivalent to 15%
of our GDP that means any business who
needs access to cash to pay their rent
their salaries suppliers or purchase
stock will be able to access a
government backed loan or credit on
attractive terms and if demand is
greater than the initial three hundred
and thirty billion pounds I'm making
available today I will go further and
provide as much capacity as required I
said whatever it takes and I meant it
that support will be delivered through
two main schemes to support liquidity
amongst larger firms I have today agreed
a new lending facility with the governor
of the Bank of England to provide
low-cost easily accessible commercial
paper to support lending to small and
medium sized businesses I'm extending
the new business interruption loan
scheme I announced a budget last week so
that rather than loans of 1.2 million
pounds it will now provide loans of up
to five million pounds with no interest
due for the first six months both of
these schemes will be up and running by
the start of next week and I'm also
taking a new legal power in the kovat
bill to offer whatever further financial
support I decide is necessary some
sectors are facing particularly acute
challenges in the coming days my
colleague the Secretary of State for
Transport and I will discuss a potential
support package specifically for
airlines and airports and yesterday I
asked my cabinet colleagues to urgently
convene meetings over the coming days
with business leaders and
representatives
in the most affected sectors to identify
other specific opportunities to support
them and their industries including
possible regulatory for Varun's I repeat
we will do whatever it takes second as
well as access to finance business need
support with their cash flow and fixed
costs
following the change medical advice
yesterday there are concerns about the
impact on pubs clubs theaters and other
hospitality leisure and retail venues
let me confirm that for those businesses
which do have a policy for insurance
that covers pandemics that the
government's action is sufficient and
will allow businesses to make an
insurance claim against their policy but
many of those businesses don't have
insurance so we will need to do more I
announced last week that for businesses
in the retail hospitality and leisure
sectors with a rateable value of less
than 51,000 pounds they will pay no
business rates this year today I can go
further and provide those businesses in
those sectors with an additional cash
grant of up to 25,000 pounds per
business to help bridge through this
period additionally I am also extending
today the business rates holiday to all
businesses in those sectors irrespective
of their rate of all value that means
every single shop pub theatre music
venue restaurant and any other business
in the retail hospitality or leisure
sector will pay no business rates
whatsoever for 12 months and if they
have a rateable value of less than
51,000 pounds they can also now get a
cash grant as well I also announced last
week that we would be providing three
thousand pound cash grants to the 700
thousand of our smallest businesses in
light of the new circumstances and to
support their cash flow today I can
increase those cash
to ten thousand pounds taken together on
top of the unlimited lending capacity I
have already announced this is a package
of direct support to businesses through
tax cuts and grants in this financial
year worth more than twenty billion
pounds and that comes on top of the
existing multi-billion pound package I
set out a budget which included
reimbursing small and medium-sized
companies for the cost of statutory sick
pay local authorities will be fully
compensated for the cost of these
measures and the devolved
administration's will receive at least
three and a half billion pounds in
additional funding as a result of these
measures to provide support to
businesses in Scotland Wales and
Northern Ireland I repeat again we will
do whatever it takes third I will
strengthen our support for people's and
individuals at budget last week I
committed 1 billion pounds to support
the financial security of vulnerable
people through a half a billion pound
boost to the welfare system and a half a
billion pound hardship fund for local
authorities following discussions with
the industry today I can announce that
for those in difficulty due to
coronavirus mortgage lenders will now
offer a three-month mortgage holiday so
that people will not have to pay a penny
towards their mortgage costs while they
get back on their feet and in the coming
days I will go much further to support
people's financial security in
particular I will work with trade unions
and business groups to urgently develop
new forms of employment support to help
protect people's jobs and their incomes
through this period as I said last week
this is first and foremost a public
health emergency and I reiterate today
our commitment that whatever resources
the NHS needs it will get let no one
doubt our resolve when I said in the
budget that we will do everything we can
to keep this country and our people hell
and financially secure I meant it the
measures I've announced today are part
of a comprehensive coordinated and
coherent response to what is a serious
and evolving economic situation these
are only the first steps I will set out
the next stage of our response in the
coming days we have never faced an
economic fight like this one but we are
well-prepared we will get through this
and we will do whatever it takes
thank you thanks very much Rishi thank
you very much we'll just go straight to
questions then if is Laura Coons baby
yes please Laura Khun spoken the BBC
thank you very much Chancellor and Prime
Minister you've just announced a vast
package of support and but I know you
said the loan scheme should be up and
running next week you said you'll have
more measures to come up in the coming
days but can you guarantee to firms who
need to pay wages now and families who
worry about paying the rent now that
they will not lose out while you work
through the details of what comes next
and a question if I may dissipate check
obviously the scientific advice changed
dramatically in the last couple of days
but do you have any regrets about not
taking more draconian measures sooner
well just on the on the first point
Norah which was to me in to Tory she
being there diet the the state is is
asking people to do something to make
very considerable changes to their lives
and it is only right that for that the
state should stand behind people as they
make those changes and that's what the
government that's what a society is
there to do it's there to look after
people through thick and thin and to
make sure that we get through this
together and that's what we're gonna do
if I just add Laura you're absolutely
right the people should have access to
the support they need as quickly as
possible that's why when all the
interventions that we designed at budget
and today we've had in our mind the
ability to execute and operationalize
them as soon as possible there's no good
having measures which sound brilliant
but ultimately can't be delivered in
time given the pace of what we're
dealing with
what I would say for people who have
urgently need help is to do two things
one is to talk to their local
authorities if they're in a particular
vulnerable position local authorities of
world place to provide direct support
through their assistance schemes and as
we announced a budget last week an extra
half a billion pounds is going to local
authorities to supplement the support
that they already give and with regards
to their creditors and banks we have had
extensive discussions with the banks who
understand the situation of people are
in and will they have assured me provide
flexibility to those people in those
circumstances and understanding in
answer to the second question we laid
out at the beginning the package of
measures that would need to be looked at
and we said they need to come in at the
right time they need to come in in the
right combination and what we've said is
that the stage of the epidemic is now on
to the far stuff stroke we are at the
stage where these need to come in they
need to come in forcibly as they have
done and that's the right action to take
at the right time and the other packages
that we've talked about the other things
that may be also necessary may also need
to come in so that this is a fast-moving
situation in which we need to take the
right decisions at the right time of
this epidemic and it's clearly one
that's a very serious situation Thanks
so going use some case guide use a
question for each of you so Patrick the
Joule dropping piece of research from
Imperial College yesterday suggested
that we would go to a superb that the
only option was to go for a suppression
strategy which could take up to 18
months and was there for that long
because we were looking for a vaccine is
that how you say it is a vaccine the
goal as you understand it mr. sunic
you've suggested a package that in part
will be valid for three months is that
how long you see this crisis lasting and
you're offering predominantly loans
how are people ever gonna how business
is ever going to pay stuff back given
the nature of this crisis and prime
minister some people can away from
yesterday's briefing some more confused
about guidance for instance for the
elderly right do you accept
that the buck stops absolutely with you
in this crisis and do you take
responsibility for the actions of your
father right yes so the work from
imperial clearly that works been feeding
into sage since the very beginning of
the process Neel focuses on be not the
sage committee and so it was something
that we looked at we asked for we asked
for that piece of work to come through
that particular piece and just to be
clear what suppression in that paper
refers to is exactly what we've been
talking about which is squashing this
right down and making sure that we give
room for the NHS to cope and that's
that's what messages in terms of the
time frame this needs to be done in a
way that we can look at releasing it at
some point
and seeing what the effect is none of us
anywhere in the world know how to do
that yet in terms of whether it bounces
back or not at that point so that's
what's going to have to happen after
we've got this under control is to look
at how you then release these measures
at the right time to monitor the effects
in terms of vaccines and vaccines are
the answer to this it's remarkable the
progress that's been made it's only
probably three or four years ago when
the standard answer would be it takes
twenty years to make a vaccine it's now
the case that there's a vaccine in the
UK that may go into the clinic for first
testing in April I still believe we will
be lucky to get a vaccine for mass use
in a year from the start of this that
would be extraordinary but there is
progress there are multiple different
types of vaccines and there are other
approaches as well which are being
looked at which may provide protection
so there's a lot going on as the Prime
Minister Prime Minister has said is
crucial that we support that research to
get this into the right place to be able
to treat people now which may be
possible desisting drugs and to promote
vaccines thanks for the question on the
three-month inform all these holidays I
think that's just that's just one start
and that's just one aspect of the
package obviously as this situation
evolves we will
we will review absolutely everything but
I would defer to Patrick in terms of
timing for what we believe the right
spread of the virus to be to a broader
point about what's the right shape of an
economic response package what I think
about in a few different ways you know
one is we've got monetary policy and
we've got fiscal policy and I think what
you saw last week was you know in
comparison with many jurisdictions
around the world you saw the UK showing
global leadership in a coherent
coordinated approach between monetary
and fiscal policy which I think has a
multiplier effect beyond the individual
measures and I think that was noticed so
I think in that sense there's been very
significant monetary policy action
already you saw that coordination again
today as I said we've worked on a very
sick Euler financing scheme with the
Bank of England again showing that the
two arms of economic policy can work
together to provide support and then you
can benchmark what we're doing with
other countries around the world there's
a mix of loan schemes are important
because ultimately businesses need to
have liquidity to get through what is a
difficult bridge but we have unveiled I
think what would benchmark is a very
comprehensive and sizeable package of
direct fiscal support for business
through tax reliefs and cash grants as I
said today 25,000 pounds for retail
leisure and hospitality businesses opt
51k 10,000 pounds for several hundred
thousand businesses eligible for small
business rate relief and that comes on
top of business rates holidays that
we've given to several hundred thousand
businesses compensation for statutory
sick pay and also as I said today we
plan to go further with regard to
employment support and supporting
people's jobs and incomes and we want to
work with business and the unions to
achieve that and again that will be very
significant direct fiscal action so I
think actually if you look around we're
doing the right things it needs to be a
balance of all measures but we want to
be best-in-class than all of them yep I
understand of course the buck stops with
me and I take full responsibility for
all the actions that this government is
taking all the decisions were taking
difficult though many of them are and
all the advice were giving to to
everybody and what I'd say to
people who are thinking about this
advice the more we follow the advice of
the of our scientific and medical
advisors and the more closely we do what
they tell us to do the better our
chances collectively of slowing the
disease of protecting the NHS and of
saving life and also of course the the
better we can protect her in an NHS the
the less economic damage there will
ultimately be and of course people care
about pubs and their right to care about
pubs and and restaurants but that is why
we're announcing the package the
extraordinary package that rishi has
just unveiled today that is the way that
we should be working to look after our
economy robert peten many businesses are
facing collapsing demand particularly in
the leisure industries they also face
demands to pay their taxes from last
year's business they have demands to pay
wages
why is your help in the form of debt and
grants that maybe repayable when these
business owners have got no confidence
about what the future may hold
why not just say now we will cover your
liabilities and we'll recess all of this
again
at some point when the future is clearer
clearer because many businesses may
simply decide to cease trading rather
than take on more debt which is what you
are offering equally you want to
incentivize people to do the right thing
and go home so why not announce today
how you will make it clear that they
will not be penalized for doing the
right thing and then finally if the
Prime Minister is there ever an urgent
reason to go to the pub Just Answer
answer just in general terms right the
what this is a huge package of support
for for business large and and small and
it's it's it comes in the form of
standing behind companies obligations
behind their debts it it on a huge huge
scale but also in making sure they have
the cash flow that they need and Ricci
has gone through the the figures this is
a quite extraordinary effort to put
liquidity into the economy at a
difficult time but being no doubt that
one day the UK economy is going to
bounce back and those companies are good
brilliant British companies will bounce
back and that's why we're taking the
steps to protect them that we are today
Robert you're right in terms of
businesses have fixed costs that which
we want to target support that help them
get them through this period if you look
up for most of these businesses what are
their two largest fixed costs it will
largely be rent payments and staff so on
rent the various cash grants we've
announced which are not repayable those
are direct cash grants that is direct
cash for businesses at scale relative to
their rateable value you can do an
approximate value rateable value which
is a good approximation for the market
rent that someone might be paying on
their property not perfect I give you
that but what's are the grants that we
have given actually provide a lot of
cover to cover those fixed rental
payments that you mentioned and when it
comes to employees you know in terms of
people not being penalised between the
right thing the steps that the prime
minister already announced and I follow
it up within the budget last week made
improvements to how SSP works and indeed
how ESA works and indeed the types of
people that it covers so that no one is
penalized for doing the right thing they
can get access to the welfare or
benefits or SSP they need from day one
if they're self isolating even though
they're symptomatic that is covered
under those provisions as well but what
I did say today as well the other fixed
cost which is the cost of people we want
to look at and we want to develop with
business in the unions a bold and
ambitious Employment Support Package
because we want to provide businesses
with the security that some of that pic
fixed
cost we can help with because that
ultimately is good for the individual
because it means their income is secure
for a period it's good for the business
because it doesn't have to go out of
business and it's good for preserving
the job so as the Prime Minister said we
will get through this and on the other
side to ensure that what was a temporary
shock doesn't become a permanent shock
we want to preserve those jobs so there
are options that are out there to do
that but we will work with unions and
business to figure out the best possible
solution but between the cash grants to
help on the rateable value and then a
package on employment support I think we
will address the two largest fixed costs
the fixed liabilities that you talked
about the businesses have thanks Jason
Daily Mail thank you Jason goes to the
Daily Mail Chancellor there be people
who are being laid off today and
freelancers having their contracts
cancelled would you ask firms to take a
moment and look at this package before
taking those sorted decisions and prime
minister you've spoken about needing to
possibly make more extreme measures in
the coming days and weeks a lot of
people have very confused about schools
today parents had taken their kids to
school this morning they were told last
night by you that they shouldn't mix
with their phones they shouldn't stop
for a chat in their street but their
kids can go to school mix with each
other all day and come home when are you
going to close schools Jason I would say
that to those businesses as many
businesses that quite frankly struggling
right now they haven't done anything
wrong they've seen what's happening and
they're seeing their revenues fall off a
cliff and they're anxious about what to
do but what I would say is the package
of support that we announced last week
that the new measures that have
announced today with more to come
hopefully should provide reassurance to
all those businesses that support is on
its way
in various forms we are going to help
them get through this so they don't need
to rush into decisions quickly they can
talk to their banks they can look at all
the support that we've outlined today
see what they're eligible for and make
decisions based on that and I think
working collectively through this
together we will get through to the
other side but that's the reassurance
that we want to provide for businesses
we don't want them to have to make those
difficult decisions we want to help them
get through this it's better for them
it's better for the economy and it's
better for people
jobs oh and on schools look I understand
completely where people are on schools
and we're keeping that under continuous
continuous review Francis Eliot times
thank you sir Patrick could you help us
a little bit with what inputs to the
model changed such that you can change
to all escalated the approach is just
just take us through some of the some of
the thinking behind Imperial was it was
it that more ICU capacity was needed
than you had initially anticipated
Chancellor the twenty billion figure is
that on top of the thirty billion figure
is that completely on top of and perhaps
you could just say a little bit more
about this employment support is this
essentially the state meeting wage costs
in full or in part yes so the model is
there to try and make sure that we keep
NHS capacity and clearly the aim is to
make sure that we save the maximum
number of lives and protect the
vulnerable the number of people who may
require ventilatory proportion of people
who might require ventilation looks a
bit higher because the oxygen on its own
isn't working all the time and therefore
you have more people who may need to go
onto a ventilator that's one thing that
changes the model a little bit and the
second but the main reason was not so
much the change in the model itself but
the place we were in the epidemic to say
we need to get on and accelerate the
moves that we wanted to make in terms of
the implementation so it was a mixture
of timing especially as I said London
was a bit ahead but also some of the
model assumptions as to where you need
to get to to get under NHS ventilator
and going capacity process
well the model that the work we're doing
and by the way these are models so
you're just going to be very careful
about that these are models but the
measures that have taken that would been
put in place which are very big measures
as we're discussing and they require all
of us to do them and I would like to
thank everybody who is already doing
them because we need to do them
these are predicted to have a very major
effect on the peak and to suppress it in
a big way it's and they're not trivial
interventions it doesn't mean that it
won't be necessary to take more to get
it there thanks very much oh sorry
yes Francis yeah these are new they're
new measures or extensions of existing
measures of the total cost which we will
outline the details and the guidance for
shortly is incremental
and to your point on what we're looking
at what we're trying to do is find a way
to help businesses meet the fixed costs
of their staff without having to let
them go right so what that will involve
is some partnership working between all
of us to see how best we can do that
that there are models that are out there
from other countries that you'll be
familiar with the challenge we have is
to make sure to you know also to Laura's
question earlier is whatever we do we
need to make sure that can work fast and
quickly and what we can't do is try and
reinvent something old and then
something from scratch that takes too
long to get up the ground so we'll need
to we'll need to work with the grain of
what we've got but we want to be
ambitious in that regard because we want
to provide security to people we want
applied security to businesses that they
don't have to make these difficult
decisions we can all get through this
together thank you thanks yes we have
Heather Stewart from The Guardian and to
the Chancellor 330 pounds 330 billion
pounds is a very big number are you
confident that you have the capacity the
bank does the Treasury does to make sure
that businesses know about these this
scheme and to get the money out the door
on a timescale that people will need it
if their businesses are to remain open
and can I also asked about food so
shoppers are arriving in supermarkets
today to find shelves empty you've tried
exhorting the public to shop sensibly
and you've repeatedly said that you're
talking to supermarkets about this to
keep supply chains
working but what practical steps are you
gonna take to make sure we've all got
the food we need to eat throughout this
these coming weeks and months Heather
yes we're confident we have the capacity
we've been working around the clock to
make sure that we can deliver this as
quickly as possible another said it
should be up and running by the end of
this week start of next week we will
supplement that with an extensive retail
campaign to make sure that all
businesses are aware of what is
available so that they can walk into
their local bank branch next week and
talk to somebody about the coronavirus
business interruption loan that the
government is guaranteeing and backing
you know that's that's our ambition we
want that that's what we want to have
happen and just a on the on the
supermarkets we're absolutely confident
that our supply chains are working and
will work and that we will get a farm to
fork food supplies for this for this
country and therefore people should have
no reason to to stop by allure planning
by Nicola Bartlett from The Daily Mirror
thank you and prime minister the British
public really want to do the right thing
and but there's been a lot of confusion
about what the message is and as far as
people understand it that they should be
staying at home as much as possible
can you spell out absolutely what what
the message is but also some of the
message some of the measures that you've
outlined today are designed to help
people if they lose their jobs statutory
sick pay in this country is much lower
than in a lot of other European
countries are you confident that there
is enough support available for families
who are worried about what seems to be a
prolonged period and you know longer
than potentially or initially envisaged
and finally Prime Minister you you made
a joke about a last-gasp attempts to get
its ventilators is that appropriate
language to be using in this kind of
situation thank you well first of all on
what the advice that were giving and
let's be absolutely clear that what we
want to do is is stop the transmission
of disease and so what we're saying to
the to the public is
avoid all unnecessary contact that could
involve the transmission of disease that
means not going to places where you
might pick it up pubs restaurants and so
forth avoiding gatherings large and
small and I think people do understand
that we are seeing an effect of the
advice that we're given you also know
about what we're saying with home
isolation staying at home if you have
any of the two key symptoms a high
temperature or a continuous new cough
everybody understands that
I hope seven days if you have if you
have one of the two symptoms 14 days if
someone in your household has one of
those two key symptoms and as I say
we'll be bringing forward further
measures to look after particularly
vulnerable groups to shield them even
more and on your on your second point I
think what I want one all business want
to explain what I'm saying is an end to
suffering and that is why they are
working incredibly hard in the next few
weeks and and we really only have a few
weeks to build literally thousands of
ventilators that this country will need
it's a an amazing the British industry
manufacturers are responding to this
challenge with incredible energy and a
determination George Barker FD
Chancellor you set out a wide-ranging
series of measures to mitigate the
effects for the virus on business
you'll seen the u.s. administration's
talk about sending a check of $1,000 to
every individual is there a case for a
broader fiscal stimulus maybe
coordinated on a global basis and to the
prime minister with hearing earlier all
about insurance companies and their
obligations are you speaking to the
insurance companies and do you think
they're doing enough to help their
customers through this difficult period
George yeah with regard to fiscal
stimulus words obviously we had a budget
last week that unveiled a fiscal
stimulus of about 1% of GDP which you
know the time was significant
that said not really forgotten yeah that
said of course will we look at these
things and we'll respond as as the
economy demands in terms of coordination
you know both the Prime Minister and I
are in regular contact with our
counterparts across the g7 and the g20
you would have seen various communique
that have gone out to make sure that we
can be as coordinator as we can on a
range of different measures in terms of
the right way to do that there's
obviously there's different ways to do
it in terms of checks to people as I
said I think our employment working to
see what we can do on the employment
support side is probably my first
preference but if the need arises for
further demand stimulus in general that
we think would be effective you know we
can obviously look at that but as I
talked about at the budget speech given
the particular situation we're dealing
with you know typical demand side
actions might not have the same benefit
or sailings that they wouldn't normally
have but we of course stand ready to do
whatever it takes and sorry only
insurance point George yeah I mean I
think Richie is it got was been talking
directly to the to the insurers but what
we've what we've done is to ensure that
you know where people have policies that
they say that the insurance might have
said only involve a payout where the as
it were they the the insured party has
been compelled to to shut their business
whereas we've only urged people to stay
away and there's been some sort of
quibble about whether or not to pay out
the insurers have have stepped up to the
plate and understood that they have to
they have to pay out to those to those
businesses but Richard young yeah that's
that and we've reached that agreement
for them today
thanks Paul off post Chancellor first
can ask you the prime minister last week
said he wanted to level with people that
things would be bad in terms of deaths
do you want to level with people today
and say how bad thinks that they're
gonna be in the economy over the next 18
months a lot of people saying a
recession is inevitable do you think one
is inevitable and but there you're gonna
try and mitigate that as much as
possible and to Prime Minister
you do close schools what steps you're
gonna take to help children run free
school meals to stop them going hungry
Paul as I repeat what I said last week
which is even more clear today as a
result of the actions that we're taking
in and how things have progressed this
will have a significant impact on our
economy
that's what I said last week I stand by
that but I also stand by what else I
said is you know this will be temporary
right we will get through this
and we will get through it together and
the steps that we're taking mean that we
will emerge together on the other side
able to rebound back to confidence and
economic activity and that's why all the
event interventions that were looking at
are designed to provide that bridge
through this what will be a very
difficult and challenging period but get
us through this period and so that we
can be there on the other side to emerge
stronger thereafter but yes it will be
significant but that's why we're doing
everything we're doing we're doing
whatever it takes to get through it and
things will be better in time Thanks
yeah hold on on free school meals and
you know as we come to the decision on
on schools we will have obviously plans
ready to go on that Gavin Williamson the
Education Secretary has a plan to make
sure that parents with kids who are
eligible for free school meals get the
the the compensation or the the
treatment they need one way or the other
we we certainly anticipated that um can
I just I think probably which we should
wrap it up now because these are daily
conversations daily press conferences
now and I think where she has outlined a
pretty big and an important plan that I
hope everybody has been able to to
understand and has been able to
interrogate interrogate us about look
what we're doing is we're asking the
public to do some some pretty big things
in the changes we're asking us all to to
make in our lives and I understand the
effect that that is going to have on the
economy I just will repeat that key
message the more siculus Lea the more
zealously the more meticulously the more
scrupulous ly we can follow the
scientific advice
that we've been given the better we will
be able to protect NHS the more lives we
will be able to save and the quicker we
will get through this experience and the
more strongly our economy will bounce
back but in the meantime as you'll have
gathered this afternoon we are going to
do whatever it takes
thank you very much
[Music]